# W+JetsMerge

This is a GitHub repository created to store the W+Jets simulations, both the fiducial version and the updated simulation with matching &amp; merging implemented.  The fiducial or baseline version is stored in one tarball titled WplusJetsBaseline, and the matching &amp; merging version resides in WplusJetsMerge.  All of the supporting files relevant to each simulation can also be found in their respective tarballs.

This document serves as a guide to the various files required to run the simulations, but it should not be regarded as exhaustive!  Please feel free to direct any questions to the author, Ben Johnson: bjohns18@tufts.edu.

After unpacking the WplusJetsMerge tarball, you should see the main code, VjetsPythia8.cc, in addition to a host of supporting files.  Before anything else, it's good form to switch off the login node you're connected to by accessing the cluster via SSH.  You should also initialize ROOT from the CERN Virtual Machine File System (CVMFS).  This can be accomplished easily by accessing the text file included in the tarball named ROOTCopyPasta.txt.  NOTE: there are a few methods of connecting to a computing node and loading ROOT included in this file.  You should only run four lines of code total (you can copy and paste them directly into the terminal).  The first will begin with "srun" (this connects you to a node, and I generally recommend the "largemem" version); then the next two will begin with "export," then "source" (these define a path to where the ROOT versions are stored in the CVMFS, and you should wait a few seconds after running the "source" command); finally, end with one of the lines beginning in "lsetup" to complete the ROOT initialization.  Since this code was compiled with Pythia8.302, you should use the “lsetup” command labeled with that version.  If all goes well, you should now be connected to a computing node running ROOT.  Now, let’s review the various files in the tarball to summarize their roles.  First, we can cover the command files.

The command files end in .cmnd, and they provide instructions for Pythia to run the physics simulations.  There are three primary command files and two support files for the CKKW-L merge.  The primary files are VjetsPythia8_kTDurham.cmnd, VjetsPythia8_PTLund.cmnd, and VjetsPythia8_Phase.cmnd.  These each represent different approaches to the W+Jets simulation, with each of the three implementing the CKKW-L merging scheme specified in the title.  You will supply one of the primary .cmnd files as a command line input when running the script so that Pythia can perform the simulation as desired.

The two support command files are read in by the main program automatically, and they contain a variety of settings and parameters relevant to the simulation.  These include, but are not limited to, the number of events, the random seed, the physics tunes, and a variety of Standard Model values like particle masses.  It's essential to properly adjust the support command files when running the simulations, but you don't need to include them on the command line.

Next, we can cover the .sbatch files.  These are Slurm scripts which direct a cluster node to run the Pythia simulation.  There are three nearly identical versions, one for each of the primary command files (named to match).  They should be relatively straightforward, but, in a nutshell, they request time on a node, establish output files for information storage, ensure ROOT setup, then run the executable.

Then, we also need to include a set of dependencies which define assorted classes and functions called by the main program.  The header files all end in .h or .hpp, and the other source files end in .cc.  The primary header shares the same name as the main program: VjetsPythia8.h, but it calls include statements for the other headers: ANA_utils.h(.cc), StdArg.hpp, TruthJets.h(.cc), TruthPart.h(.cc).  The dependencies also have associated object files ending in .o which are created by the compiler before linking everything into the main executable.  Their names match their respective source files: ANA_utils.o, TruthJets.o, TruthPart.o, and the main object file, VjetsPythia8.o.  The compiler names the final executable to match the code, but without an ending--it's simply called VjetsPythia8. This will eventually be run with the command "./VjetsPythia8 <desired-simulation>.cmnd" (either in the terminal or in a Slurm script, and flags can be added to this command for some additional options: for example, “-outroot” followed by a file name specifies a ROOT file for output storage).  Replacing <desired-simulation> with one of the primary command files determines which merging method will be employed.  Also, Slurm scripts are generally preferable as they allow for parallel computing; running the simulation from the command line will occupy the terminal.  NOTE: ROOT must be initialized first!

Next, in order to run the Pythia simulations with CKKW-L merging, we must provide input files containing events generated by MadGraph (another event generator similar to Pythia) to be used in the merging process.  These are known as Les Houches Event files, and they end in .lhe.  A variety of example .lhe files will be included in the LHEFiles directory within the tarball.  The files beginning with w_production_tree each contain a small set of events, while the others all contain 250,000 (I believe).

Finally, the last relevant files in the tarball are titled Makefile and Makefile.inc.  The Makefile provides instructions to the compiler when building the simulation, and the Makefile.inc includes the paths to the modules on which the code depends.  After making any changes to the code, you should save the file, then run the command “make” in the terminal (in the same directory where the code is stored) to recompile and update the executable.  NOTE: while the Makefile itself should function as soon as you unzip, the Makefile.inc may need to be updated with the correct paths to the support modules (these include FastJet, HepMC2, LHAPDF, and Pythia8).  I'm going to include the Makefile.inc that links to the SoftwarePack25 directory within /cluster/tufts/beaucheminlab, and I believe you won't need to change anything, but I can't guarantee that at this point.  However, since the compiled executable is already included in the tarball, you should be able to run it out of the box without recompiling.

This concludes the basic introduction to the W+Jets CKKW-L simulations.  Further information regarding the cluster can be found at https://it.tufts.edu/high-performance-computing, and additional details on matching &amp; merging can be found at https://pythia.org/latest-manual/htmldoc/MatchingAndMerging.html.  Good luck with your analysis!



